Lu Williams
Fall 2024
Writing & Government
Creative Writing
                                      Cogito Ergo Sum (Unrevised)

Introduction
        The following paper is a culmination of my life’s work. It is unfinished. Unrevised by any eyes other than mine, it is hopefully the first of many drafts of something greater. I write this piece as I don’t have any glorified publishings, in hopes to meet the requirement for this creative writing program. I write these things because they are true and honest, and for further confirmation, it is all I have. I have lived my life in non-commitment and many unfinished projects. It wasn’t by choice for a long time, but to continue after this point in having true awareness and capability, would be the doing at my own hand. I briefly talk about my run-ins with identity, my ongoing battle with my memory, past trauma with death, blame, and social media, and I mull over liberation. Some new and some old, I hope this work can emphasize what I am meaning to say: that I choose divinity from here on out. I think therefore I am.

        I am in a place both unknown and unknowing as in, I have never been here before. Not just for the first time, or the first time today- but in technicality, as in, I will never be here again. In this first- in this newness, in all particularity, while being this young and this alive. I heard somewhere that we start to die once we turn 25. That for every year we grace thereafter we slowly lose the ability of self correcting, self healing, and regenerating. That all the physical indicators of youth leak out of us, fizzle, and fry. And still we dare to dream. Knowing this will end, when we could simply choose at our births to lay in all of our tissue and matter, we dare to know. Just to remember that we know nothing all over again. 


I’m here because I know much of nothing, because knowing how much I do not know frightens me, and because I know where knowing nothing gets me. Not knowing how to express my emotions or articulate my thoughts has gotten me short fuses and battered hands. Not knowing much of boundaries has left me vivid and scattered flashbacks of events I don't remember. And do not want to. Not knowing heritage, not knowing myself, it’s brought me guilt, shame, rage, peace and paranoia. It’s brought me pain and back to peace. And though I do not know, I think here is where I am meant to be. In pondering, in silence, as the world sounds off around me in clunky train cars I can hear from the 6th floor Library. Overhearing exchanges of favors and pursuits, as New York rings beneath me. On muzzled earth that chants “lenape”, soiled with blended blood. Crying for freedom. Still in knowing nothing, I know that is what calls me. Freedom. There, longing to be written out and released. 

        Here in truth and metaphor. I have never been here before. Here, as in literal, after all, this is my first week. Here as in newness, applying for my first honors program. And to return, both somatic and factually, I will never actually be here again. 

For the things I can’t explain in detail:

Memory
(Poem, 2024)

I envy the echo of sea shells. 
Whether or not you stop to listen,
They tell you stories of their home.
Speak of life in depth and detail, 
Echoing tale of other parallels 
Existing alongside them


Oracles, Ancient, Constant, Wise
This plane memory of mine-
As flat as it is dreary.
Recalls no matter of events
In anyway to envy,
What stories shall I tell?


What stories shall I tell?
(Poem, 2024)

“What stories shall I tell to make you more fond of me? 
To make this sweeter for me cus’ I can taste bitter.” 
and as a woman, I am not supposed to be.


Woman? I am not supposed to be. 
Radical? I am not supposed to be.
Temperamental. I. am not supposed to be.


Angry.  I.  am.  not.  supposed.  to.  be. 


I used to hide from my windows,
Scared that they would find me, hunt me down, and kill me.
I still get scared. I just don’t hide. 
Bitter, witch, barren. Void of god.
Yet, somehow I am weirdly so divine.

My home is quiet and carries the same tension
I hold it in my shoulders. I am distrusting.
I carry my dead with me to use as bulletproof glass
In case of necessary defense but at least she hangs on my back.
At least she keeps my shoulders pulled.
At least she died for something.
At least he died for something.
Cus I have felt no similar plight.
You win.
You snatched your trophy and hammered the cold steel
Til piping hot fragments stole the chill
And took your breath.
You took your last breath
And cursed my name while you did it. 
How fucking wicked.
Join the list.

.. of all those cursed men 
who claim I am their villain.


Present Day


I struggle to extend beyond my past some days, I have been dwelling in it for years. Held hostage by so much shame, I have been left to rage and profound distrust. I wonder if that is why I can’t grasp hold of my memories? Maybe I just don’t pay enough attention. Lately, I have mostly regarded my past in shortness, birthed as the day that shame and anxiety settled. But my existence has existed well before that. Aren’t I endless? Don’t I say that? 

        I’ve been here trying to remember who the fuck I am. As if it really matters. As if I cannot simply be. As if my words have not been document, and as if I have no archive. I truly have no concrete archive. I only journeyed on this quest to re-know myself because I had simply stopped being, in every facet. So why can’t I just return?


Am I too new?


Here is where I be. Standing in all the intermingling. In trial and post tribulation. Questioning, all the time… but extending. I’ve always known what freedom taste like. I’ve always known her. She was expressed through my clothes, my hips, my love, my longing, my loud ass voice. I’ve always felt her and tested the bounds of her confinement. And my god, by god, I will extend. extend. and extend again. 

        I am daring to be free, daring to once again find myself beautiful. To find me worthy. When I think of versions from my past I think of a bold innocence. I think of raw optimism and talent, untapped and wasted. And when I think deeper, I know these are lies and fabrication, as if this was all it was. The past has a way of feeling romantic that way. For I am way deeper than that. And I have not left. 
Still here. Still bold. Still beautiful.
Don’t I say that?


Beauty is in the eye of the beholder
(Poem, 2014)
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder, so how do you see me?
Do you see my kinky roots, my scarred face and arms?
-Yesterday‘s proof for what caused me great harm.

Do you see my style or the imperfections in my smile? 
Do you see my heart has been broken from mistakes as a child?
The tear stains on my cheeks from nights of crying to sleep,
Do you analyze these things to calculate my beauty?

Who is this beholder who judges you, so?
Looking at every flaw and blemish- not the fact that you glow.

Who is it whose opinions you take so harsh
That their stupid remarks make you cover up your scars,
with long sleeves and harsh products? 
Makeup: Mac, Sephora, Nars?

That beholder is me.
When you look in the mirror tell me what do you see?
Look past the imperfections, look at what makes you unique.
Look at your family tree. 
Look at that beautiful brown tone that people tan just to be.

Baby. Look at me. 
You are the beholder, own who you are.
Embrace every curl and every single scar,
Show every imperfection in that beautiful smile.

Don’t show the brokenness or tear stains on your cheek,
Open up your mind and give others a peek.
Show them what you didn’t always see.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder, 
and that beholder is me.

Only liberating
(Essay, 2018) (revised)

        “As a recap of my journey in Communication, Gender, and Identity, I feel that the most impactful impressions for me were left by our assigned readings. Throughout this semester, life and school has challenged my view of my own identity, and a bit more recently after diving into our group project, I’ve been analyzing which identity is primarily important to me. “Am I simply a student first, or does being ‘strong’ all the time trump that ideal?,” these are questions I’ve had to ask myself along with many others. I’ve had to ask, “Who I am okay with being in this world?” And, “ Who is it important for me to be, for myself?” The journey of this semester has been all things like humbling, disappointing, and then ultimately inspiring- a pool for self-reflection. On a more dynamic level, I sat with my deepest fear, as spiritualist Marianne Williamson so eloquently put,
 “Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure. It is our light, not our darkness that most frightens us. We ask ourselves, Who am I to be brilliant, gorgeous, talented, and fabulous? Actually, who are you not to be? … As we are liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically liberates others.”
In this paper, I acknowledge that I’ve been conscious of the power of my own self-liberation in relation to others. Which is why I wear myself so boldly. But, on my constant path of self discovery this class has helped me realize the usefulness in being ignorant, how I limit myself from another person’s experience that looks different from mine, and how I navigate  my identities as coexisting constructs. Kate Bornstein lingered with me, my gender workbook was successful in having me be over analytic, this was the perfect balance, hearing perspective  juxtaposed by Wood’s ‘gendered lives’ in structure and nearly an objective viewpoint. I genuinely believe that through the analysis of our readings I’ve become better at my ability to communicate. With that ability can come power. But, who am I to be powerful? Or- Nani (deadname), who are you not to be?”

For my future
For some reason, I took my power and destroyed with it. Fed up, I wrecked everything I had so gently placed in my path and then hid when I saw what that power could do. I find myself here now wondering, “who am i not to be.” Destroyer, Creator, Divine. Here in my awakening, shedding my shame. Here, as in, knowing I am necessary. 
        I’ve been pondering the same questions my whole life. Pondering who I should be for the world, and who I should be for myself. Ultimately failing. Shedding name after name, expecting liberation to come with new found expression. With affection, I’m still the same bitch. Still the same human, in the same world, somehow now different. Still unable to become this confident human I have convinced myself that I always was. Up until today. I choose to be confident and self-knowing while being truthful that I appreciate external affirmation. Both unknowing and unknown, I ask myself? “ Who am I okay with being in this world?” And, most importantly “Who is it important for me to be, for myself?” I think I'm beyond the point of conceptualizing. I just want to be. I want to live in all my affirmation. Embody everything I pray for. For who do I truly pray to if not myself? As liberated as I dare to be. Living. Creating. Expanding. Defining freedom, not just writing about it, or neglecting to even pencil it down. My work is messy and a bit unrefined. Honestly, I am out of practice in a field I never got to deeply settle in enough to feel adequate. But today, at 26 I declare my liberation, living to one day, 46, one day 66, and 93. Confidently believing the words of face readers and listening to the tales of sea shells, enlisting the magic of parallels and multiverses, in every “past” version and everything that surrounds me. Grateful I can find silence in the noise and learn the language that spirit speaks. Both living and being. Well beyond. Spiritually liberating myself from feeling burden. Empirically. Releasing, because I can no longer afford my prisons. Though you don’t know it, neither can you. Systemic nor inherited. 

        Oh, I have started dying … so that means it’s time for me to live. “Future me” asks for no permission to be. I simply am. I am endless. Let the clock count down- I will not race it. I will be here, as in, embracing the unknown.

        “Life is tragic simply because the earth turns and the sun inexorably rises and sets, and one day, for each of us, the sun will go down for the last, last time. Perhaps the whole root of our trouble, the human trouble, is that we will sacrifice all the beauty of our lives, will imprison ourselves in totems, taboos, crosses, blood sacrifices, steeples, mosques, races, armies, flags, nations, in order to deny the fact of death, the only fact we have. It seems to me that one ought to rejoice in the fact of death--ought to decide, indeed, to earn one's death by confronting with passion the conundrum of life. One is responsible for life: It is the small beacon in that terrifying darkness from which we come and to which we shall return.”
* James Baldwin, The Fire Next Time

________________
Works Cited

Baldwin, James. The Fire next Time. Penguin Classics, 1990.
(Deadname) Williams, Nani “Only Liberating.” Unpublished. University of South Florida  (2018) 
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AxjcSXPFx-0UHmU_X6wlirZUeIo3sCsvpiaT_IXmYE8/edit?usp=sharing
Williamson, Marianne  “A Return to Love: Reflections on the Principles of "A Course in Miracles"” HarperCollins (2009)